 miller

Arthur Miller is one of the most influential American playwrights of the 20th century. He is best known for his classic play Death of a Salesman, which won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1949. Miller’s works are often set in modern times and address issues of social responsibility and morality. His plays have been performed around the world and have been made into films, television shows and stage productions.

Miller was born in New York City in 1915. His father was a successful businessman and his mother was a homemaker. Miller attended the University of Michigan, where he studied journalism and wrote plays. After graduating in 1938, he moved to New York City to pursue a career in the theater.

Miller’s first play, The Man Who Had All the Luck, was produced on Broadway in 1944. Although it was not a success, it was the beginning of Miller’s career as a playwright. His next play, All My Sons, was a critical and commercial success. It ran for over two hundred performances and won Miller the New York Drama Critics' Circle Award for Best Play.

In 1949, Miller wrote Death of a Salesman, which was an instant classic. It won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama and has become one of the most frequently performed plays in the world. The play deals with the struggles of an aging salesman, Willy Loman, who is unable to accept the changing world around him. Miller’s next play, The Crucible, was a powerful allegory of the McCarthy era trials. It was a critical success and won Miller a Tony Award for Best Play.

Miller’s later plays include A View from the Bridge, After the Fall, The Price and The American Clock. He also wrote the screenplay for The Misfits, starring Marilyn Monroe. Miller wrote several non-fiction works, including Timebends: A Life and The Creation of the Modern American Theater. He also wrote a novel, Focus, and a memoir, Salesman in Beijing.

Miller was married to Marilyn Monroe from 1956 to 1961. He was also married to Inge Morath, with whom he had two children.

Arthur Miller died in 2005 at the age of 89. He is remembered as one of the most influential playwrights of the 20th century. His plays are still performed around the world and his work continues to inspire generations of playwrights.