

Azimuth is a term used in navigation, astronomy, and surveying to refer to the angular distance of a point from a reference plane or line. In astronomy, azimuth is used to refer to the angular distance of a celestial body from the north or south point of the horizon. In navigation, azimuth is used to refer to the direction of a vessel or aircraft relative to true or magnetic north. In surveying, azimuth is used to refer to the angular direction of a line from a reference point.

In astronomy, azimuth is used to measure the angular distance of a celestial body from the north or south point of the horizon. The north and south points of the horizon are referred to as the cardinal points. The azimuth of a celestial body is measured in degrees clockwise from the north point of the horizon. For example, if a celestial body is located at an azimuth of 90°, it is located due east from the observer.

In navigation, azimuth is used to refer to the direction of a vessel or aircraft relative to true or magnetic north. True north is the direction of the geographic north pole. Magnetic north is the direction of the magnetic north pole. The difference between true north and magnetic north is known as magnetic variation or declination. The azimuth of a vessel or aircraft is measured in degrees clockwise from true or magnetic north.

In surveying, azimuth is used to refer to the angular direction of a line from a reference point. The reference point is usually the starting point of the survey line. The azimuth of a survey line is measured in degrees clockwise from the north or south point of the horizon.

Azimuth is an important concept in navigation, astronomy, and surveying. It is used to measure the angular distance of celestial bodies from the north or south point of the horizon, the direction of a vessel or aircraft relative to true or magnetic north, and the angular direction of a line from a reference point. Azimuth is an important tool used by navigators, astronomers, and surveyors to accurately determine the position of objects in the sky or on the ground.