en

Joseph Robinette Biden Jr., the 47th Vice President of the United States, has been a prominent figure in the American political landscape for over four decades. He has served in the United States Senate from 1973 to 2009, and was elected Vice President in 2008 alongside President Barack Obama. Biden is a Democrat who has consistently championed progressive causes and championed the middle class. 

Biden was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania in 1942. He attended the University of Delaware and Syracuse Law School, graduating in 1968. After law school, Biden was elected to the New Castle County Council, becoming the youngest person ever to be elected to the Council. In 1972, Biden was elected to the United States Senate, defeating Republican incumbent J. Caleb Boggs. 

Biden quickly established himself as a leader in the Senate, becoming the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee in 1987. As chairman, Biden was a key player in the confirmation hearings for Supreme Court justices, including Clarence Thomas and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Biden was also heavily involved in the passage of the Violence Against Women Act in 1994, which provided resources and protections to victims of domestic violence. 

In 2008, Biden was chosen by Barack Obama to be his running mate in the presidential election. Biden's selection was seen as a way to bridge the gap between the Obama campaign and working-class voters. Biden was well-liked by voters, and his presence on the ticket helped Obama win the election. As Vice President, Biden was an influential voice in the Obama administration, and was instrumental in the passage of the Affordable Care Act. 

In 2020, Biden ran for President of the United States. His campaign focused on restoring the soul of America and restoring the middle class. He was seen as a steady hand in the face of the coronavirus pandemic, and his message of hope and optimism resonated with voters. In November 2020, Biden was elected President, becoming the oldest person ever to be elected to the office. 

Throughout his career, Biden has been a champion of progressive causes and a voice for the middle class. He is known for his strong convictions and his willingness to reach across the aisle to get things done. Biden is respected for his decades of service to the United States, and is seen as a leader who can bring the country together.