en

Joseph Robinette Biden Jr., the current President of the United States, has had a long and distinguished career in public service. He was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania, on November 20, 1942, and grew up in nearby Claymont, Delaware. He graduated from the University of Delaware in 1965 with a degree in history and political science and from Syracuse University College of Law in 1968.

Biden began his political career in 1972 when he was elected to the U.S. Senate from Delaware. He was re-elected to the Senate six times, and served as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and the Senate Finance Committee. He also chaired the Democratic Leadership Council and the Senate Democratic Policy Committee.

In 2008, Biden was chosen as the running mate of Barack Obama in his successful bid for the presidency. As Vice President, Biden was deeply involved in policymaking and foreign affairs, and was a key figure in the Obama administration's efforts to address the Great Recession.

In 2020, Biden was elected President of the United States, defeating incumbent Donald Trump. As President, Biden has focused on restoring the United States' international standing, tackling the coronavirus pandemic, addressing economic inequality, and combating climate change.

Throughout his career, Biden has been a vocal advocate for civil rights and social justice. He was a leader in the passage of the Violence Against Women Act, the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, and the Affordable Care Act. He has also been a strong supporter of LGBT rights, and has advocated for the rights of immigrants and refugees.

Biden's long career in public service has earned him the respect and admiration of many. He has been praised for his commitment to bipartisanship and for his ability to bring people together to find common ground. He has been described as a "man of the people" and a "bridge builder" who has been able to work with members of both parties to get things done.

Biden's legacy will be remembered for generations to come. He has had a long and distinguished career in public service, and his lasting impact on the United States will be felt for many years to come.