

Bifocals are eyeglasses that are designed to provide clear vision at both near and far distances. They are the most common type of multifocal lens, which means they have two distinct optical powers in the same lens. The first power is for distance vision, and the second is for near vision. Bifocals have been around for centuries and have been used to help people with vision problems see clearly at all distances.

The invention of bifocal lenses is attributed to Benjamin Franklin in 1784. He was a successful businessman and inventor who had difficulty seeing clearly up close. He was one of the first people to recognize that different parts of the eye have different powers and that a single lens could be designed to correct this problem. He designed the first bifocal lenses, which had two parts: one for distance vision and one for near vision.

Bifocal lenses are made of two different types of glass. The top part of the lens is made of a stronger glass that is designed to correct distance vision. The bottom part of the lens is made of a weaker glass that is designed to correct near vision. The two parts are fused together and are usually separated by a visible line. The line is usually in the shape of a half moon, and is known as the “Franklin line” in honor of Benjamin Franklin.

Bifocals are available in many different styles and materials. The most common type is a full-frame bifocal, which is a single lens that covers the entire eye. Half-frame bifocals are also available, which only cover the lower part of the eye. Bifocals can also be made of plastic or polycarbonate material, which is lighter and more durable than glass.

Bifocals are used to treat a variety of vision problems, including presbyopia, which is a condition that affects people over 40 and causes difficulty seeing up close. Bifocals can also be used to treat astigmatism, which is a condition that causes blurred vision at all distances. Bifocals can also be used to correct vision problems caused by refractive errors, such as nearsightedness and farsightedness.

Bifocals are an effective way to correct vision problems and can help people see clearly at all distances. They are available in a variety of styles and materials and can be customized to fit your needs. If you have difficulty seeing up close or at a distance, bifocals may be the right choice for you.